This is certainly an interesting text
for us today—very well-known.
And we appreciate
that Jehovah reveals to us what we need
—what we need to know in order to be happy
and what we need
in order to serve him faithfully.
But there are some things
that Jehovah God has not revealed to us
—things that we may be curious about
and things that we really don’t know.
But our curiosity may persist
even though it’s something
we are not able to know or fully understand.
For example, our text comment tells us
that we don’t need to know the names
of all of the anointed on earth today.
And the last sentence in the text comment
tells us that “it would be pointless . . .
“to try to ascertain
who among God’s servants
will eventually be part of the 144,000.”
The final judgment and sealing
of the anointed
is a very private matter
between Jehovah
and individual anointed ones.
However, some of us may be a bit like Peter,
curious about others
and what God’s will is for them.
But, frankly speaking, brothers and sisters,
our curiosity does have to be controlled.
We need to recognize our limitations.
And there are things
that really don’t pertain to us.
Let’s read a scripture text
on this point in John chapter 21.
In John chapter 21,
we’ll read verses 20 through 23.
This follows Jesus telling Peter
what sort of death he would undergo.
And so at John 21:20-23,
it says in verse 20:
“Peter turned around and saw the disciple
“whom Jesus loved following
[that would be the apostle John],
“the one who at the evening meal
“had also leaned back on his chest and said:
“‘Lord, who is the one betraying you?’
“So when he caught sight of him
“[that is, Peter caught sight
of John following],
Peter said to Jesus:
‘Lord, what about this man?’”
Well, Peter had just learned
what sort of death he would undergo.
Now he wanted to know about John.
“Jesus said to him: ‘If it is my will for him
“to remain until I come,
of what concern is that to you?’
“[Isn’t that interesting?]
You continue following me.”
And that’s the key point.
And then it goes on; it says:
“So the saying went out among the brothers
that this disciple would not die.”
Well, rumors sometimes start circulating.
We hear something, and then we
pass it on and may be misunderstood.
“However, Jesus did not say to him
“that he would not die, but he said:
“‘If it is my will for him
to remain until I come,
of what concern is that to you?’”
That probably stifled Peter
for a few moments on that occasion
—slowed him down a bit—
but Peter didn’t go away distressed or upset
with Jesus not telling him
how John would remain until Jesus came.
And that would be
when Jesus revealed to John
about His coming
in the Kingdom in the future.
And John wrote it all down
in the book of Revelation.
And that was done about the year 96 C.E.
So Peter was curious
about what was going to happen with John,
but he didn’t know
—didn’t have the right to know—
about something
that pertained to Jesus and to John.
It was private.
Knowing the names of brothers and sisters
in our congregation is of interest to us.
Frankly, I’m finding it
a little bit difficult at times
to remember names in a new congregation
when I have to call on brothers,
but little by little, we learn.
And usually, we of the “other sheep” know
who partake of the emblems,
because, after all, in our congregation,
we see the emblems being passed,
and we can see individuals partaking
—in a sense, telling us that,
yes, they have the heavenly calling.
We see it at the Memorial.
And I might also add at this point
that even though we don’t know
about that personal relationship
that comes about
—we don’t experience it ourselves—
but we are convinced, for example,
that the members of the Governing Body
have the heavenly calling.
After all, Jehovah has blessed them.
They fulfill Bible prophecy
about “the faithful and discreet slave.”
There are certain things
that we acquire knowledge about
and we’re convinced of.
We see Jehovah’s favor on them.
We have no doubt
that Jehovah’s blessing is upon their efforts
to take care of the “domestics”
and provide spiritual food for all of us.
But there’s something we don’t know.
We have nothing to do with the final sealing.
That is a personal thing that takes place
between the individual and Jehovah God.
And as the comments on the text state,
it takes place “sometime before
[the anointed one]
dies faithful or . . . before the outbreak
of ‘the great tribulation.’”
That’s what we’re told,
and that’s what we understand.
And that’s what’s indicated in Revelation,
where it speaks
of the final sealing of the anointed.
And as our scripture text today says,
the anointed and the other sheep make up
‘one flock under one shepherd.’
We work together to do Jehovah’s will
and to honor his name.
And we’re not seeking
to make a name for ourselves
among men, among people,
to get some type
of personal glory about what we do.
There’s an interesting account about Manoah
(the man who became father to Samson)
and the angel that appeared to Manoah.
Now, Manoah refers to the angel
as “the man of the true God.”
So his impression was that it was a man
who came from the true God
to speak to his wife and then to him.
He knew that it wasn’t Jehovah
because Manoah had spoken to Jehovah God
and he requested that Jehovah
send the man of the true God again to him.
Well, let’s see what took place
in that account in Judges chapter 13,
because we get a viewpoint
of what kind of attitude
we want to have in connection
with our service to God, Jehovah.
At Judges 13:17, 18,
it says there:
“Then Manoah said to Jehovah’s angel:
“‘What is your name,
so that we may honor you
“when your word comes true?’
“However, Jehovah’s angel said to him:
“‘Why are you asking about my name,
seeing that it is a wonderful one?’”
In other words, ‘I’m not giving you my name;
you don’t need to know my name.’
That angel displayed modesty.
And the other point, too, to keep in mind:
Manoah’s words reveal something to us.
He wanted to know the angel’s name
in order to honor him
when his word came true.
Jehovah deserves the honor.
And it wasn’t the angel’s word,
but it was Jehovah’s word
by means of his messenger, the angel.
So the angel was not about to
take credit that belonged to Jehovah.
And when you think about it,
isn’t that the way that the anointed
and the other sheep look at things?
We’re not here to try
and take credit for ourselves,
some kind of glory among our brothers.
No, we’re here to honor
Jehovah God and bring him praise.
Whatever we do
in our sacred service is to honor Jehovah.
And what about knowing
at some point in the future
those who will be
in the heavenly Kingdom with Christ?
Well, The Watchtower  from which
our text comments are taken says this:
“Psalm 87:5, 6
“indicates that it is likely
that in the future the names of all those
who have been raised to rule with Jesus
in heaven will be revealed.”
And then Romans is cited.
It speaks of “the revealing
of the sons of God,”
not directly in connection
with revealing their names,
but that term is used there.
And Psalm 87:5, 6 is cited,
referring to “Zion” and those “born in her.”
And we know that those
of the anointed receive—
They’re “born again”
with the hope of everlasting life.
And they’re born
to Jehovah’s heavenly organization (his wife)
to rule with Jesus Christ in the heavens.
So we don’t need to know
the names of every member
of the anointed and follow each one of them.
That’s not what we do.
Jesus is our Leader,
and the Bible tells us
we must follow only him—Matthew 23:10.
And there is a principle to keep in mind
that’s found at 2 Timothy 2:19.
It applies to all the anointed
and the other sheep.
It’s a beautiful principle:
“Jehovah knows those who belong to him.”